# NA

The following checks are currently implemented in the `pkgcheck`
package. Several of these are by default only shown when they fail;
absence from a resultant checklist may be interpreted to indicate
successful checks.

## *1. pkgchk_fns_have_exs*

Check whether all functions have examples.

## *2. pkgchk_fns_have_return_vals*

Check that all functions document their return values.

The reflects a CRAN checks for all new submissions, to ensure that
return values are documented for all functions. This check applies even
to functions which are called for their side effects and return `NULL`.

## *3. pkgchk_has_citation*

Check whether a package has a `inst/CITATION` file.

“CITATION” files are required for all rOpenSci packages, as documented
[in our “*Packaging
Guide*](https://devguide.ropensci.org/building.html#citation-file). This
does not check the contents of that file in any way.

## *4. pkgchk_has_codemeta*

Check whether a package has a `codemeta.json` file.

“codemeta.json” files are recommended for all rOpenSci packages, as
documented [in our “*Packaging
Guide*](https://devguide.ropensci.org/building.html#creating-metadata-for-your-package).

## *5. pkgchk_has_contrib_md*

Check whether package has contributor guidelines in a ‘contributing’
file.

A “contributing” file is required for all rOpenSci packages, as
documented [in our “*Contributing
Guide*](https://devguide.ropensci.org/collaboration.html?q=contributing#contributing-guide).

## *6. pkgchk_license*

Check whether the package license is acceptable.

Details of acceptable licenses are provided in the links in [our
*Packaging Guide*](https://devguide.ropensci.org/building.html#licence).

## *7. pkgchk_obsolete_pkg_deps*

Check whether the package depends on any obsolete packages for which
better alternative should be used.

The list of obsolete packages is given in [our *Packaging
Guide*](https://devguide.ropensci.org/building.html#recommended-scaffolding).
Some of these are truly obsolete, the use of which raises a red cross in
the summary of checks; while others are only potentially obsolete, thus
use of which merely raises a note in the detailed check output.

## *8. pkgchk_on_cran*

Check whether a package is on CRAN or not.

This does not currently appear in any ‘pkgcheck’ output (that is,
neither in summary or print methods), and is only used as part of
`pkcchk_pkgname_available`.

## *9. pkgchk_pkgname_available*

Check that package name is available and/or already on CRAN.

## *10. pkgchk_renv_activated*

For packages which use ‘renv’, check that it is de-activated.

Although we do not generally recommend ‘renv’ for package developement,
packages may use it. They must, however, ensure that [`renv` is
deactivated](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/reference/deactivate.html).

## *11. pkgchk_has_scrap*

Check whether the package contains any useless files like `.DS_Store`.

Files currently considered “scrap” are:

1.  “.DS_Store”
2.  “Thumbs.db”
3.  “.vscode”
4.  “.o” files

## *12. pkgchk_unique_fn_names*

Check whether all function names are unique.

Uses the database of function names from all CRAN packages associated
with [releases of the `pkgstats`
package](https://github.com/ropensci-review-tools/pkgstats/releases).

## *13. pkgchk_has_url*

Check that a package ‘DESCRIPTION’ file lists a valid URL.

## *14. pkgchk_has_bugs*

Check that a package ‘DESCRIPTION’ file lists a valid URL in the
“BugReports” field.

## *15. pkgchk_uses_roxygen2*

Check whether all documntation has been generated by ‘roxygen2’

Use of ‘roxygen2’ to generate package documnetation is mandatory for
rOpenSci packages, and is described in detail in [our *Packaging
Guide*](https://devguide.ropensci.org/building.html#roxygen2-use).

## *16. pkgchk_has_vignette*

Check whether the package contains at least one vignette.

## *17. pkgchk_left_assign*

Check that left-assignment operators are used consistently throughout a
package.

Left-assign operators recognised by R are: (“=”, “\<-”, “\<\<-”, “:=”),
as defined in [the main grammar
definition](https://github.com/wch/r-source/blob/trunk/src/main/gram.y).
This actually checks the following two conditions:

1.  Check that any “global assignment operators” (“\<\<-”) are only used
    in appropriate contexts; and
2.  Check that all left-assignment operators are consistent, so either
    all use “=”, or all use “\<-”, but do not mix these two symbols.

The `:=` operator is ignored in these checks.

## *18. pkgchk_srr*

Check that ‘srr’ documentation for statistics pacakges is complete.

Procedures for preparing and submitting statistical packages are
described in [our “*Stats Dev
Guide*”](https://stats-devguide.ropensci.org). Statistical packages must
use [the ‘srr’ (software review roclets)
package](https://docs.ropensci.org/srr) to document compliance with our
statistical standards. This check uses [the
`srr::srr_stats_pre_submit()`
function](https://docs.ropensci.org/srr/reference/srr_stats_pre_submit.html)
to confirm that compliance with all relevant standards has been
documented.

## *19. pkgchk_ci_badges*

Get all CI badges from a repository, and check that jobs currently pass.

This extracts badges directly from README files. If none are found and a
repo is GitHub, then an additional function is called to check CI status
directly from GitHub workflow files.
